# Data

This folder contains the data used throughout the evaluation. Besides, links to the used datasets are provided at the
end of this document.

## Ontology & Queries

The ontology and queries used for the benchmark come with the LUBM dataset. However, we simplified the
ontology definition and removed all OWL-specific functionalities, for example, we replaced OWL complex classes for
defining subclass relationships by explicit RDFS *subClass* definitions.

## Rules

We took the `rdfs.rules` from https://github.com/apache/jena/tree/main/jena-core/src/main/resources/etc as the basis and
modeled the other rule sets accordingly:

- `mskr.rules`
    - Containing the rdfs rules - `rdfs8` and `rdfs9`
    - This rule set includes the domain-range checking rules
    - As a comment, we included the `sameAs` rules that are not used as they are not performant
- `owl-2-rl.rules`
- `rdfs-plus.rules`
    - `rdfs.rules` adapted according to http://mlwiki.org/index.php/RDFS-Plus

## Shapes

This folder contains type definitions for all fourteen types provided by the LUBM ontology. Each type is defined together with its
properties and their ranges. Those shapes are used for the *inference checking* reasoning task.

## Datasets

As a benchmark dataset, we rely on the *Lehigh University Benchmark (LUBM)* - http://swat.cse.lehigh.edu/projects/lubm/.

*"The Lehigh University Benchmark is developed to facilitate the evaluation of Semantic Web repositories in a standard
and systematic way. The benchmark is intended to evaluate the performance of those repositories with respect to
extensional queries over a large data set that commits to a single realistic ontology. It consists of a university
domain ontology, customizable and repeatable synthetic data, a set of test queries, and several performance metrics"* (
cited from http://swat.cse.lehigh.edu/projects/lubm/).

For the query answering reasoning task, we created three datasets of different sizes:

| No. of universities | No. of triples |
|---------------------| -------------- |
| 100                 | ~13,405,383    |
| 1000                | ~133,573,856   |
| 10000               | ~1,334,681,192 |

Additionally, for evaluating the *equality reasoning* task, we enriched the previous datasets with *sameAs* links.

| No. of universities | No. of triples |
|---------------------| -------------- |
| 100_sameAs          | ~13,436,627    |
| 1000_sameAs         | ~133,611,144   |
| 10000_sameAs        | ~1,334,708,312 |

### Availability

The raw files as generated by the LUBM generator and the raw files for the enriched datasets are available here:

- [Raw_Data_Files](http://dataset.sti2.at/MSKR/Datasets/)

Besides, for Jena, we generated TDB2 databases and zipped the corresponding folders:

- [Jena_Databases](http://dataset.sti2.at/MSKR/Jena_Databases/)
